Summary
======================================

This summer 2016 I had the opportunity to be an intern at the pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly. Eli Lilly was founded in May 1876 by Colonel Eli Lilly in Indianapolis, and since then it has made meaningful impact on people and communities by developing and discovering highly effective medicines around the world (e.g. first insulin medicine). The company it is actively involve in research and it is an excellent environment for a phd student to develop and improve his/her research skills. Thus without thinking it twice I became one of the 41,000 employees of Lilly.

I worked in the modeling and simulation department under the supervision of Dr. Salvador Garcia. My job was to assist him in the development of an optimization package for the estimation of kinetic parameters of chemical reaction systems. He has been researching and collaborating with the chemical engineering department of Carnegie Mellon University to formulate an efficient numerical approach for the determination of kinetic parameters from spectroscopic data. When I joined the project several advances on the formulation had been done already and I was asked to implement some of their ideas in a python package that will allow them to quickly estimate parameters of different reaction systems.

The internship was an enormous learning experience. Since the project was in collaboration with the chemical engineering deparment of Carnegie Mellon University I not only learned from the experts at Eli Lilly but also from the top researchers on the field of optimization plus i got the experience of working in a global research company like Eli Lilly. Therefore some of the work presented in the rest of this document is the result of interacting with people at both the university and the company. Since the work done during the internship was software development in this report i will present the documentation of the python package developed.
